# Community-Rules
This document contains the information you need to successfully participate on [What You Haven't Seen](https://www.youtube.com/c/whatyouhaventseen).

If you want to know what prompted this, see "WTF?" below.

## PREFACE (ADDED AFTER I HAD WRITTEN EVERYTHING BELOW)

As no doubt came through in what I wrote earlier, the unfortunately-loud voices of an obnoxious few really got to me. 
Hilariously, that a lot of people were screaming back at the idiots on my behalf had the effect of raising their comments to 
the top.

When you have a half-dozen people cursing at you and commanding you to run your channel the way they demand - right after 
trying something that I was already planning on never doing again - it can be very hard to remember that essentially everyone 
here is extremely supportive of what I am doing. I mean, that's why you're all here! And there are a TON of you. It's crazy to 
think about, but this channel has fifteen million unique viewers. And it had a half-dozen loud assholes. Well, some people 
shouldn't be allowed to be loud -- and now they aren't. But I want you all to know *that I know* that it really is just a 
handful of loud people.

*To the regulars on this channel, and to newcomers*: I appreciate your support and I appreciate you for your contributions. 
You help to make this channel what it is. The actions of a handful of trolls necessitated these changes, but they are 
ultimately for all of our benefit and they are NOT targeted at or because of you. You have nothing to worry about; much to the 
contrary, in fact, you are the people whose voices deserve to be heard louder here. You deserve to never be overshadowed by or 
out-yelled by people who are just here to stir up trouble. And those people are gone. For good. 

You all know that my channel is the only place on the internet serving up original transportation safety content, but it's 
working toward a new distinction: one of the only places on YouTube where trolls won't last.

Please, continue to enjoy yourselves as always here. The skies are bluer than ever and that metaphorical guy who refuses to 
announce his presence on the CTAF (but blames you for his near-miss) has been banned for life.

-WYHS

## ABOUT COMMENTS

Following a very frustrating experience that led to my closing comments on the channel, comments are once again open. Your 
first comment must be approved by one of three people, all of whom work for me full-time. This channel isn't their primary 
job, so be patient. 

That said, if your initial comment is not approved within 24 hours you may email me at the appeals address below. That kind of 
delay is something I want to know about so I can fix the issue for you, and hopefully for everyone else in the future.

Once your first comment gets approved all subsequent comments do not need approval. Be aware, however, that they are being 
moderated by a group of ~~nearly~~ more than two-dozen of your peers. You have no idea who they are and it's going to stay 
that way, so consider being nice to each other.

## THE CHANNEL IS SEEKING COMMENT MODERATORS

First, to the new moderators: I can't thank you enough for stepping up and making it possible to reopen comments. That fifteen 
of you responded in ten minutes - and that all of you have a track record commenting on this channel - is a huge vote of 
confidence. I really appreciate it.

If you would like to volunteer as a comment moderator AND you have a track record of reasonably sane commenting on this 
channel, I need your help and would love to have you onboard. You do not need to commit any specific amount of time to the 
channel, the job is easy, and you can resign at any time.

### Applying is easy:

1. Draft an email to modteam@whatyouhaventseen.com.

2. Put the word "Application" as the subject of your email, without quotes.

3. The first word in your email must be the YouTube handle you use to comment on this channel, on its own line, case-sensitive 
and without quotes.

4. The rest of your email can say anything you'd like, but it can also be blank. A one-word email does not impact your chances 
of being selected, but it may speed the review process.

Be aware that your entire post history will be read. Your application will be handled by my staff and I trust the judgement of 
every one of my employees. If your application is rejected it cannot be appealed. 

You will hear back within seven days. Messages directed to me but contained in moderator applications will be forwarded to me.

Let's see how this goes. Please be patient as the kinks are sorted out. 

If you have comments or suggestions, email feedback@whatyouhaventseen.com.

## FURTHER INFORMATION, APPEALS:

If you find yourself unable to comment and you think that is a mistake email appeals@whatyouhaventseen.com. 

I have nothing to do with day-to-day comments on my channel other than setting policy guidelines and participating when I am 
able but I handle all appeals personally. I will do my best to be fair. 

Direct all hate mail to spam@whatyouhaventseen.com.

#### Please remember that I receive more than 100 emails a day related to this channel alone. My staff handles some of them, but it *will* take some time to get back to you.

## CLOSING THOUGHTS

Since I started What You Haven't Seen in June of 2017 more than 15 million unique viewers have spent more than 100 years
engaged with the exclusive content I have investigated and published. What You Haven't Seen has a positive impact on 
transportation safety and it does so while providing news and entertainment to hundreds of thousands of people every day. 
The community is diverse and vibrant, and if you can act like an adult you are welcome to be a part of it. Conversation is 
alive 24/7 and the channel exists to improve transportation safety by providing a transparent and accessible disclosure of the 
facts relating to incidents and accidents. I think I do a pretty good job.

Think of a YouTube channel as a house, and think of my channel as a house that belongs to me. (If that doesn't sit well with 
you, you need to keep reading.)

Like with all houses, if you can't or won't follow the house rules, you will not be allowed in the house.

In my house I do not allow assholes. That's my house rule. Don't be an asshole. The standard for assholery is 
of course subjective and I have instructed the mod team to err on the side of liberal approvals (if you have been around for a 
while and have not received a direct warning, you're fine) but if you are unpleasant to be around I don't want you anywhere 
near my channel and if you don't conform to the standard of "not being unpleasant" you are going to get banned. Forever. 
<sup>1</sup>

## WTF?

*If you have not read the preface above, please do so before you read on. I want to underscore that I know that you are not 
the problem.*

I'm going to be very direct here, because I don't want there to be any confusion about this. 

If you missed the fireworks, you are probably really confused and wondering what led to all this. The answer is "people 
talking to me as though they had the authority to dictate aspects of my channel and its content."

Get this straight:

I enjoy bringing you the content on my channel, but you get it for free and I spend thousands of dollars and countless hours 
annually bringing it to you. You pay me NOTHING for it and YouTube pays me NOTHING for it. I even tried asking for your 
support - hell, I offered exclusive access to material in exchange for it! - and out of a literal one-million-plus people who 
read and saw my request twenty-three people came through. All of them did so despite my clear statement that "supporters have 
no greater privilege to dictate any aspect of my content than others." 

Every one of those people is awesome for being willing to financially support my work, and the overwhelming majority of the 
rest of you are just as awesome for appreciating and enjoying my content all the same. *I know that I am giving it to you for 
free and you are not any less of a good human being for accepting and enjoying what I am giving you.*

But some of you are different. And I know that you exist, because you made that very clear. Some of you don't understand 
that you are not entitled to tell me how to give you free content and how I should spend my time. 

**Pay attention: You can make requests; hell, you can even make strongly worded requests. Believe me, I can handle them. But 
the instant you start to *command me what to do* you cross my personal DO NOT CROSS line. And I will not tolerate it. To the 
point that I am literally paying people to keep you away and I am happy doing so. I am an adult and I know my boundaries well. 
You will not cross with them without consequences.**

If things were any different, if I was being paid or given *anything* in exchange for providing you with content, an argument 
could possibly be made that you were entitled to something.<sup>2</sup> But things are not different, and if you think that \
you are entitled to *anything* from me, you are delusional. If hearing that doesn't sit well with you, you may be one of 
the people I don't want anything to do with. And that's okay, but you can't hang at my metaphorical house and you are not 
going to convince me otherwise. 

On the other hand, if what I wrote above makes sense to you, then - from the bottom of my heart - I thank you for being a 
normal, decent human being, and I apologize for having to institute these measures to keep entitled assholes at bay. In the 
end it is going to create an even better community for all of us.

Time to get back to work :)

Peace.

-WYHS

### Footnotes

<sup>1</sup> Google does an excellent job at detecting duplicate accounts created to circumvent bans. I can't speak for 
Google, but there is a good chance that if you attempt to circumvent a ban by creating an alternate account you will have ALL 
of your Google accounts on ALL Google services permanently shut down. You probably don't want that.

<sup>2</sup> That "something" would *still* not be "commanding me what to do." Particularly while telling me to fuck myself.
